docs/User Interface.md, before:


> [!CAUTION]
> 
> This documentation is still work in progress and is missing a lot of information and screenshots of the UI panes and components.

Basalt is always booted up in the 'splash' screen, where users can pick a vault from a list of available vaults to be opened.

## Panes

Basalt user interface is divided into different panes; modals and components.

### Explorer (Sidebar)

Explorer is shown on the left side and displays the folders and notes under the selected vault.

In the future explorer will support creating folders, notes and renaming or moving them.

### Note editor

Note editor is the 'main' pane that is used to view and modify the selected note.

## Components

### Status bar

The status bar shows bits of helpful information at the bottom of the screen, which includes the currently selected pane; and amount of words and characters.

## Modals

Modals are UI components that can be opened on top of existing active panes or other components.

### Help Modal

Help modal can be accessed by pressing <kbd>?</kbd>. Help modal contains the essential information of each pane and key mappings.

### Vault Selector Modal

Vault selector modal can be accessed by pressing <kbd>Ctrl+g</kbd>, which lets you select another vault from the list of available vaults.

Commit message:

Add `Outline` module
The Outline module lets you navigate and view the note headings.
Functionality wise it's very close to Obsidian equivalent. The pane uses
similar tree hierarchy as the Explorer module and lets users to expand
and collapse the selected headings. Additionally, the outline lets you
move the note editor cursor to currently selected heading in the outline
by pressing `g`.

The Outline will automatically highlight the 'heading block', when user
moves the cursor in the editor.

Changelog: added
Package: basalt

docs/User Interface.md, after:


> [!CAUTION]
> 
> This documentation is still work in progress and is missing a lot of information and screenshots of the UI panes and components.

Basalt is always booted up in the 'splash' screen, where users can pick a vault from a list of available vaults to be opened.

## Panes

Basalt user interface is divided into different panes; modals and components.

### Explorer (Sidebar)

Explorer is shown on the left side and displays the folders and notes under the selected vault.

In the future explorer will support creating folders, notes and renaming or moving them.

### Note editor

Note editor is the 'main' pane that is used to view and modify the selected note.

### Outline

The Outline is the rightmost pane that allows navigation using the headings of the document.

## Components

### Status bar

The status bar shows bits of helpful information at the bottom of the screen, which includes the currently selected pane; and amount of words and characters.

## Modals

Modals are UI components that can be opened on top of existing active panes or other components.

### Help Modal

Help modal can be accessed by pressing <kbd>?</kbd>. Help modal contains the essential information of each pane and key mappings.

### Vault Selector Modal

Vault selector modal can be accessed by pressing <kbd>Ctrl+g</kbd>, which lets you select another vault from the list of available vaults.
